All right let's move on now.
You all know about the dirty details of the resolution and aspect ratio what cameras might you use to
actually record this footage we've talked about so much.
Now there are really four main categories of video cameras out there.
And one of them is professional grade don't really even worry about the high end stuff because I'm not
going be covering it.
And also those cameras can get insanely expensive.
There's cameras that are $60000.
So even cameras that are like semi amateur semi pro like the red line cameras are around like 15 grand
and that's just not worth it unless you're a professional video company.
I'm going to talk about the three categories that most people can afford and get good results with.
Now those are going to be smartphones.
Then we have consumer cameras and then we have prosumer cameras which are kind of like a step below
pro cameras but they cost a ton.
A lot of people call them prosumer.
Basically you're an amateur but you take it a lot more seriously.
OK let's first talk about smartphones.
Yes.
You can use your iPhone or Samsung or whatever phone you're rocking these days to shoot your video.
And I mean it is actually an HD quality video.
The new iPhones can actually shoot in for k which is kind of mind boggling.
Now here's the thing some people say well that's cheap and I don't want to shoot with my phone.
How is it how is it possible it's going to come out great.
Well there's actually a lot of videos you can find online like on YouTube and people who shoot video
all the time and they only use smartphones.
I've actually seen entire documentaries that have been shot on iPhone 7.
You can't really tell the difference actually what really matters here is that when you shoot with a
smartphone it's going to save you a lot of money.
But smartphones don't really like help you if you're trying to skimp on the other aspects of your video
right.
So a fighter 15000 or camera and that's filming and I didn't have very good lights or I didn't have
a very good setting.
Well that camera is so expensive and so good that it can actually kind of make up for the lack of light.
Like for instance there's a camera called the Sony A7 ass R2 where you shot become a product manager
in it.
Well that one for instance can practically see in the dark.
So if you have an improperly lit room you can actually make up for that and then you can still get a
really good quality image.
Now with smartphones you can use them.
However if you wanted to look as good as the other ones you really have to make sure you're checking
all the boxes in terms of lighting and setting.
Now the reason why that is is a concept called dynamic range and your cameras basically just are not
very good at displaying wide ranges of color and that's why when you're in the dark they have a really
hard time differentiating between dark dark dark and just dark dark.
So it is possible to use your smartphones but obviously the question now is should you rely on them.
Really what I just say is if you have no budget then I think it's an option or if you're just dipping
your toes in the water to see how it goes and then you know later you're gonna buy a better camera.
Now of course don't dip your toes in the water by making an ad in your iPhone or an explainer video
with your iPhone.
You probably don't know what kind of screw around with something more minor that people are going to
be more forgiving about.
So if it's the case that all you need is great lighting and a great scene and then the smartphone pretty
much makes up for anything you'd ever need.
Why is it that more people don't use smartphones or why is it that everybody doesn't use smartphones.
Well the problem is that one the dynamic range I mentioned before but also that your smart phones just
have a lot of limitations that make it harder to do more fancy things with it.
Like for instance your camera only has one lens on it and while the lens is pretty nice it's only one.
You can't change it based on the setting you want.
There are these like groovey lens attachments you can put on your camera or put on your smartphone.
However I don't know how well those work.
One thing that's worth mentioning is that the zoom on your can your smartphone is digital and so essentially
what that means is when you zoom in it's not actually adjusting the lens in a way that it's focusing
on one area more specifically only recording that what it's doing is it's just taking the same images
taking before but it's zooming in on the image.
That's it.
So just zooming in on what it's already recording it's like if you took the video yourself and then
just zoomed in on it.
And that's why the quality kind of degrades what ends up happening is it just gets pixilated and all
you know blocky.
Now also one thing that's worth mentioning is that iPhones smartphones usually autofocus and auto adjust
the image.
So if you have like a lighting set up which you have to absolutely have you probably need to manually
adjust a bunch of settings on the phone in order to get it right.
Now one of those things is exposure which refers to the amount of light that the camera lets into the
lens with a regular camera.
You can usually leave all of the settings alone for really the first couple times you shoot but if you
use your phone you might have to remember how to set everything up for later.
And then of course there's the storage issue with your phone right.
So if you want to record one minute of ATP video on an iPhone for example that's 130 megabytes of space.
So once you start shooting you're going to need a lot of minutes and a lot of hard drive space.
Well phones fill up pretty quickly.
So that's kind of like the bottom level you could do.
You could use smartphones.
There are pros and cons to them if you have no budget and you're just trying to test this out than it
you can definitely work with a smartphone.
However you're going to focus more on your lighting and your setting to make up for some of the inherent
disadvantages of the iPhone.
You can absolutely use smartphones and there are entire movies shot on iPhones and that's kind of incredible.
However it just takes more manual effort.
You can't really zoom in correctly.
You can't change the lens.
It's really hard to shoot repeatedly without constantly backing up your phone to pay that much space
it has.
And it also just has poor dynamic range which really for your purposes means it doesn't do very well
in low light.
And like really bright settings too it really will get blown out.
OK so there you go.
Smart phones are really great task and they can capture really nice video.
But if your iPhone is your primary camera Well you might really be pushing the limits specially if you
have no idea what you're doing.
Now an easier option is just to invest in a consumer level camera.
And that's the next category of cameras that I want to get into here.
Consumer level cameras are made specifically with everyday people in mind people who want to record
videos of friends and families soccer games vacations make their own home movies you name it they want
something relatively inexpensive that has a decent feature set and takes good videos and they do.
When you look around for video cameras you'll see common brands usually like Canon Sony Panasonic.
There's a lot of other ones obviously they're readily available at big box stores and online.
Now consumer cameras are nice because they are really simple to use.
They don't have all the bells and whistles of pro cameras which can actually limit them a little but
they've got most of the basics that most people need.
Now these cameras are usually smaller and they're very portable and easy to handle and they have no
problem recording unlike tape.
Let's talk about consumer cameras.
I'm talking about more like and shoots and maybe even a little bit like camcorders.
So they usually like Friends of the point and shoot let's say like the Sony cyber shot.
Well it's just kind of a rectangle and you carry it around and it's really easy and portable and you
can attach lenses to it although a lot of people just don't do that.
It has a lot of the same controls that you'd find on a normal camera whereas like a smartphone is going
to limit what you can do with it.
With these you have a little bit more options.
These are really popular for like liquor saying home videos because they're really easy to use pull
up and then shoot with them.
Not a lot of situations these like the cyber shot they can shoot in A.P. which is all you really need.
But if you want to a fancy and go for k and then down sample Well you might have to pay a little bit
extra.
I'm not even sure if there are point and shoot cameras that can do that.
So that's one thing to keep in mind but in general they're very economical.
I mean you get a point and shoot that's pretty dang good for $150 $200 you can buy them used for highway
last although they do go up to five hundred seven hundred.
You don't really you're bang for your buck pass like the $400 Mark.
It's not usually worth it if you're sticking in this category.
Now are use these cameras before actually to shoot courses.
However my general attitude towards them is that I use them as alternate care runs.
So a lot of times in my older courses you'd have me talking like this.
And then we have another angle where it cut to like the side of my face and it just says to mix it up
a little bit.
I've since kind of gotten rid of that but for that alternate one where I didn't care about the video
quality as much I would use these point and shoots and in most cases they're perfectly fine.
One thing that's worth doing if you're going to stick in this consumer level and you want to use one
is easy to use cameras is look for mirrorless now mirrorless camera basically just means that it doesn't
have a mirror between the lens and the sensor on the sensor is what actually picks up the light in the
image and then codes it into your hard drive or your storage.
Why does that matter.
Well because when you have a mirror and it's something we'll talk about later with DSL as they hit the
mirror and they bounce up and they do that.
I'm not entirely sure why they do that with DSL ours.
But I think it's because they want to protect the sensor.
However when you do that it just kind of degrades the quality a little bit.
And so if you find a mirror less in this middle category those actually can be quite good for video.
So that's really the second tier.
Right.
If you only on a couple hundred bucks to spend well you can go get a point and shoot consumer camera
and they're pretty good.
I mean again you're going to have to focus on your lighting and your setting and everything else.
However they're going to be more control over the image.
Oftentimes they can shoot in whatever resolution you need usually to be tenants.
There are I think some that are for k but it's also going to have a lot of the settings you'll find
in like a pro level camera.
Again great options.
However you might be limited if you need to do something really fancy with the footage afterwards.
Now once you step up to the third level what we call the prosumer camera level you can find more expensive
cameras that can do a lot more and capture really nice video.
Now again at this level you're to see the same brands is going to be Sony Canon Panasonic and generally
all the other ones like Nikon but the price is going to be higher because the capabilities will be much
higher.
Now first off the chip that these cameras are going to use they're going to capture images in a more
advanced way resulting in a nicer picture.
They're also going to give you a lot of options to say how you want to record the image how you want
to code it.
And that actually can make a difference in the video quality if you know what you're doing.
Now many of these cameras also have the ability to shoot and Torquay is becoming more and more of the
standard that they shoot and for AK and they generally are just going to have a lot more options for
everything including capturing audio.
They also offer a lot more options for controlling or changing your lens and manipulating the image
as it's being recorded.
They'll even have all pop out screens I'm changing turn around and watch yourself as you record just
great if you're one person.
Now maybe you want record in slow motion or maybe you want more options for adjusting the color of the
image.
Well these cameras and to give you more flexibility if you have those needs.
Now at this level however you can expect to spend a lot more.
Also with higher end cameras and you find yourself in the market for higher end accessories that's when
it also gets really expensive.
You can easily spend more on lenses than you can on a camera.
So keep that in mind do you have lenses and you have all sorts other accessories that really starts
to add up.
Now what are we talking about when we talk about prices.
Well with a pro-level camera.
Really what I'm talking about are like DSL cars.
Right.
The ones that are so popular for photography are for whatever reason like the Canon 70 which is what
I originally started filming with when I switched to DSL ours.
It's really really popular on YouTube it's like the YouTube camera somebody kind of looks like I don't
know bring it up I'm sure you've seen these before they're all kind of the same body type and shape.
Now generally speaking you can get cheap ones probably in the low 400 low five hundreds and then these
can go all the way up to like $5000.
Generally speaking I think the sweet spot is going to be between a hundred and twelve hundred.
And the reason why I say that is because the cheaper ones and the 400 700 range they have smaller sensors.
They generally are just going to have cheaper bodies.
They're going to have a lot of limitations that you can't really overcome if you become more into interested
or into video you're just going to get a new camera.
But if you get into the mid level range for these prosumer ones there's really nothing you can't do
and you can stick with these cameras for multiple years before you get bored of them and want to go
on to something better.
Now the camera that I use and this is a bit of a trick is this one.
So what it is it's called the Panasonic G.H. for I have two of these and eventually graduated from using
the canon 70 D using this one.
Now why do I like this camera.
Well for two reasons.
One this is the cheapest camera you can get and the prosumer category that can shoot for k this you
can buy used cars there's five now for like $800 and you get brand new for like 950.
That's the cheapest way you can shoot for k by far.
The second reason why I like this is because it's made by Panasonic.
Now when people think of cameras they always kind of dream about using the icons of the sonis or the
canons and Panasonic is kind of considered like a cheaper brand but that doesn't necessarily mean that
a cheaper brand can't make as nice of a camera just means that they focus on Usually the lower end.
It's kind of like cars.
Right.
Like you have Porsches and you have Ferrari's and then you have like the Nissan JTR which is faster
than any Porsche that's on the road.
Well Nissan can do that.
They just focus on in general cheaper cars.
So it's off brand.
And because of that people think it's our brand and they treat it like it's off brand.
That gives you a significant discount.
Pretty much like 25 percent lower than what you pay for the equivalent on canon.
The Canon version of this is like a thousand and it's 70 or 70 and I thing just sucks.
So really what you get in a video and you want to start by saving a lot of time and effort and money
to this is honestly what I would suggest.
And I was super resistant to getting it until eventually I just sucked it up and took it.
And all of a sudden I realized oh my god there's so many things I can do with this.
The image quality is fantastic.
And that's why it's known as kind of a hack within the videographer community.
It's a it's really really made for video.
It's not something for photography you know that's enough cameras.
Again there's three different levels.
You have the lower level which are smartphones.
You can do it but you've got to focus on making sure everything else is pretty much perfect then you
can pay a little bit more on the 200 to $600 range to get a point and shoot if you can get a mirrorless
version because that's going to look better on video.
But in general it's going to be a lot more flexibility.
Oftentimes someone is has once you can borrow it.
Now the last stage is the prosumer and that's where we're talking about DSL are is and that's where
really we start talking about cameras that can go anywhere from like $400 $500 for like the Canon rebels
like the T-3 eyes all the way up to like man.
Like what do we have the canon 300 or the Sony A7 s are two are those are getting in like the three
grand four grand five grand range.
So pick which one you think you're comfortable with and kind of vary that with how serious you are about
filming.
Keeping in mind views cheaper cameras.
Well you have to make up for it with better equipment.
But if you want to dive right in and you know you're into cameras.
Well my suggestion is to do the G.H. for it's super cheap you can buy it on Amazon use below a hundred
and it's not something you are ever going to really replace unless of course we come out with 12 K and
then all of sudden you have to use 12 k are going to take a quick break next lecture I'm going to talk
about video equipment.